Jasmine Harrison
IDEA 120 Digital Practices in the Arts
Professor Tiffany Funk/Jared-Kelley
Week 8 reading

Propoganda Machine: Online advertising

  In this reading a data scientist talks about how he was called upon to hear a speaker talk about advertisment. He first explains what advertisment is and 
how they follow a trend, they prove that people on the same wave that like the same stuff would me more interested in the same advertistments. "A pizzeria,
for example, might know that you're not only in the neighborhood but would also likely to be hungry for the same deepdish double cheese with pepperoni that 
you had last week at half time of the Dallas Cowboy game. Their system might see that peoples who dats follow patterns similar to yours are more likely to 
click on a discount coupon during that twenty minute window." Seeing trends in peoples action, dislikes, and likes brings more revenue and also helps with
advertisments. 

  The author then proceeds to argue that he feels that is the weakest part of the arguemnt. The justification, he says, thats whats wrong with it. "He argu-
  ed that the coming avalanche of personalized advertising would be so useful and timely that customers would welcome it." But in reality he thought that 
  most people objected to advertisments which is why his argument was weak. The flaw in making the prefect adveritment for the perfect audience is that it
  wasn't happening for the better of humankind, it was also hurting it. "We are ranked, categorized, and scored in hundreds of models, on the basis of our 
  revealed preferences and pattern. This establishes a powerful basis for legitimate ad campaigns, but it also fuels their predatory cousins: ads that pin
  point people in great need and sell them false or overpriced promises. They find inequality and feast on it". 
  
    The author then goes on explaining different schemes cookeod up to get easily influenced audience members to buy into that false hope and overpriced 
    promises. "While the WMD in the U.S. News Best Colleges Ranking made life miserable for rich d middle-class students (and their families), the for-profit
    colleges focused on the other, more vunerable, ide of the population". They have preditory ways with searching for the vunderable, these ads practically
    define the genre. However, now there are changes trying to be made where there are laws being put in place to govern the market of personal data. "Now
    regulators are pushing for new laws governing the maret for personal data --a crucial input for all sorts of WMDs". 
