Jasmine Harrison
IDEA 120 Digital Practices in the Arts
Professor Tiffany Funk/Jared-Kelley
Week 2 reading

Chapter 3: From Additive to Expressive Form
    
    In the reading "From Additive to Expressice Form", the chapter begins to talk a lot about th invention of motion picture and how people reacted to it. "The birth
  of cinema has long been assigned to a single night: December 28, 1985". From that moment forward when the invention of motion picture was introduced through a film
  in the movie theatre, people were so surprised by it they go scared and ran away, or so it's said. "A group of parisans, so the legend goes, were gathered in a 
  darkened baskement room of the Grand Cafe on the Boulevard des Capucines when suddenly the life like image of the mighty lovomotive began moving inexorably, aston-
  ishing toward them. There was a moment of paralyzed horror, and then the audience ran screaming from the room, as if in fear of being crushed by an actual train. 
  This no doubt exaggerated account is based on and actual event, the first public showing of a group of short films that included "Arrival of a Train at La Ciotat
  Station" by the Lumiere brothers, who (like Edison in America) had just invented a reliable form of motion picture photography and projection. 
  
      Thinking about how horror films were in the 1980s vs now is crazy. The fact that a horror film was the illusion of a train hitting you (which is still pretty
      scary) vs now where we see a lot of professional CGI and real looking murders/slahsers. This depth behind the whole production and everything that goes into it
      is really crazy to think about. 
      
  The reading then further goes into other inventions, mentioning one in particular that captured society and changed it forever, no pun intended. The camera, an 
  invention that led to "cradle films". "As in the case of the printing press, the invention of the camera led to a period of incunabula, of "cradle films"". During
  the 21st century the camera has changed films and productions big time, it chnaged how people viwed films in the theatre. "In the first three decades of the twenti-
  eth century, filmmakers collectively invented the medium by invnenting all the major elements of filmic story telling, including the close-up. the chase scene, 
  and standard feature length. 
  
  Concluding, there has been a lot of invnetions that has helped to shape film and productions. 
